We fixed the DM screen so the header formats correctly on open, but now the message composer/input bar is out of frame (partially/mostly below the screen) in the native iOS build.

We need the DM screen to behave like iMessage:

Header pinned at top

Messages scroll in the middle

Composer pinned at bottom and ALWAYS visible

Respect iOS safe area (home indicator)

No whole-page scrolling; only messages area scrolls

This must work in the “native build” wrapper.

What’s likely happening

The DM screen is inside a parent layout that has its own height/scroll rules, so 100vh / h-screen isn’t matching the real visible viewport in iOS.

Or the composer is outside the internal flex column, so it gets pushed below.

Or safe-area padding is missing and the composer is being clipped.

We need a robust layout using 100dvh + safe-area inset + overflow-hidden at the page level.

IMPLEMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
1) Make DM Thread page a true full-viewport flex column (no outer scroll)

In the DM thread route/page component (single conversation view), ensure the top-level wrapper is:

height: 100dvh (and fallback min-height: 100vh)

display: flex; flex-direction: column;

overflow: hidden;

Do not rely on global layout scrolling for this page.

If there is a global container like <main className="flex-1 overflow-y-auto">,
add a per-route override so that on the DM thread route:

main becomes overflow-hidden

and the thread page manages its own scroll internally

(Implement a noScroll flag on the layout or a route-specific wrapper class.)

2) Composer must be inside the flex column and pinned with safe-area padding

Ensure composer lives INSIDE the DM page wrapper as the last child and has:

flex: 0 0 auto

padding-bottom: env(safe-area-inset-bottom) (plus normal padding)

If there is an iOS bottom bar, add a few px extra

Example Tailwind-style:

wrapper: h-[100dvh] min-h-screen flex flex-col overflow-hidden

composer: shrink-0 border-t bg-white px-3 pt-2 pb-[calc(env(safe-area-inset-bottom)+12px)]

Do NOT use position: fixed unless absolutely necessary—prefer flex layout first.

3) Messages area is the ONLY scroll container

The messages list container must be:

flex: 1 1 auto

overflow-y: auto

min-height: 0 (IMPORTANT in flex layouts so overflow works properly)

-webkit-overflow-scrolling: touch

If min-height: 0 is missing, iOS Safari/WebView often pushes the bottom element off-screen.

4) Ensure input is not clipped by any parent padding/margins

Search the DM page and parent containers for:

pb-* huge padding

bottom-* transforms

absolute positioned composer

h-screen used in nested components

extra wrappers that add overflow-hidden incorrectly

We want:

outer: overflow hidden

middle: overflow auto

bottom: visible

5) Keyboard behavior (keep fixed)

Do not re-introduce autofocus.
When keyboard opens, composer should remain visible.
If needed:

Ensure we’re not using 100vh (use 100dvh) to handle the dynamic viewport when keyboard appears.

6) Add a temporary visual debug (remove after)

While adjusting, add a dev-only outline:

messages container outline

composer outline
so we can confirm what’s off-screen.
Remove before finishing.

Acceptance Tests

Open DM thread in native iOS build:

✅ header looks correct immediately

✅ composer is fully visible at bottom (not cut off)

✅ no whole-page scrolling

Scroll:

✅ only messages area scrolls

Keyboard:

✅ tapping input opens keyboard and composer stays visible

✅ no layout jump that hides send button

Short convo:

✅ composer still pinned bottom, content doesn’t float weird

Deliverables

DM thread layout fixed with 100dvh + min-height:0 + safe-area padding

Global layout override so DM page doesn’t inherit whole-page scroll

Clean code, no duplicate wrappers, remove temp outlines/logs