We fixed the “keyboard auto-opens” issue. Now we need to fix DM formatting/layout.

Current bug (based on screenshots)

Screenshot #1 (on open): DM thread looks “wrong” — content is positioned like the page is at the top, and the message composer area doesn’t feel anchored / the page feels like it needs to be scrolled to reach the proper layout.

Screenshot #2 (after scrolling down): This is the correct look: messages sit properly above the composer, and the composer is visible/anchored at the bottom.

Goal

When I open a DM, it should immediately look like screenshot #2, without me needing to scroll the entire page.

Key requirement

Right now the DM screen is likely inside a parent layout that scrolls the whole page. We need:

No full-page scroll on the DM screen

Only the messages list area should scroll (middle section)

Header stays at top, composer stays pinned at bottom

What to implement
1) Convert the DM Thread page to a 3-part fixed layout

On the DM thread route/page component (the one showing a single conversation), restructure layout to:

Outer container: full viewport height with no body/page scrolling

Header: fixed height, not scrollable

Messages area: flex: 1, overflow-y: auto

Composer: pinned to bottom (not scrollable)

Use CSS like:

outer: height: 100dvh (fallback: 100vh), display: flex, flex-direction: column, overflow: hidden

messages: flex: 1, overflow-y: auto, -webkit-overflow-scrolling: touch

composer wrapper: flex: 0 0 auto

Important: ensure parent page/container (like MainLayout) doesn’t force scrolling. If the global layout uses overflow-y-auto, we must override it on the DM screen (or provide a “no-scroll” page mode).

2) Prevent “whole page scroll”

If the app uses a global wrapper like:

<main className="flex-1 overflow-y-auto">

Then for the DM thread page, we must ensure:

the page itself is overflow-hidden

the messages list is the only overflow-y-auto

Do not break other pages.

3) Make the thread open at the bottom (without moving the whole page)

When opening a conversation:

scroll the messages container (not window) to bottom:

messagesRef.current.scrollTop = messagesRef.current.scrollHeight

Do this:

after messages load

after images render (if any)

after a new message is appended

But do NOT steal focus (we already fixed keyboard autofocus).

Also handle the case of very short conversations: layout should still “sit” at bottom properly (composer pinned, messages above).

4) Safe area / iOS native build

Because this is a native build:

Add bottom padding for the composer using env(safe-area-inset-bottom) so it doesn’t collide with iPhone home indicator.

Ensure header respects top inset if needed (but don’t re-break status bar fixes).

5) Keep existing behavior

Do not change DM search, thread list, sending messages, or RBAC.

No duplicate scroll containers that cause weird bounce.

No “double scroll” (avoid nested overflow containers inside the messages list unless necessary).

Acceptance tests

Open a DM thread:

✅ immediately looks like screenshot #2 (composer visible/pinned, messages positioned correctly)

✅ no need to scroll the whole page

Scroll:

✅ only the messages area scrolls

✅ header and composer do not move

New message arrives / sent:

✅ messages area scrolls to bottom smoothly (only if user is near bottom; don’t yank them if they scrolled up)

iOS native:

✅ composer not blocked by home indicator

✅ no layout jump

Deliverables

Updated DM thread page layout using a fixed 3-part flex column + internal scroll

Updated scroll-to-bottom logic targeting the messages container (not window)

Minimal diff, remove any temporary logs