We now get this error on iOS native:

"Clipboard" plugin is not implemented on ios

This means the JS code is calling the Capacitor Clipboard plugin, but the iOS native wrapper doesn’t include the plugin.

Goal

Make Capacitor Clipboard work in the iOS native build.

Ensure copy works without keyboard focus.

Step 1 — Verify dependencies

Confirm @capacitor/clipboard is installed in package.json.
If not:

npm i @capacitor/clipboard

Confirm Capacitor core packages exist and versions are consistent:

@capacitor/core

@capacitor/ios

@capacitor/cli
If versions mismatch, align them.

Step 2 — Sync plugin to iOS native project

Run:

npx cap sync ios

If there are errors, fix them. This step is required for the iOS project to include new plugins.

Step 3 — Ensure the iOS project is rebuilt

After syncing:

npx cap open ios
Then in Xcode:

Clean build folder (Product → Clean Build Folder)

Build/Run again on simulator/device

If we are using a CI or prebuilt iOS wrapper, ensure it’s regenerated with the new plugin.

Step 4 — Confirm plugin is actually registered

In iOS project:

Check ios/App/Podfile and Podfile.lock updated

Run pod install if needed (cap sync normally handles this)

Ensure CAPBridge loads plugins automatically (normal Capacitor behavior)

Add a one-time debug check in JS (DEV only):

console.log('Capacitor platform:', Capacitor.getPlatform(), 'isNative:', Capacitor.isNativePlatform());

Call Clipboard.write and catch error, log it.

Remove debug logs after.

Step 5 — Provide a temporary fallback (while rebuilding)

Until iOS is rebuilt, keep functionality usable:

If Clipboard plugin throws “not implemented”:

fallback to Share plugin (native share sheet) OR show a modal with:

the company code in a selectable box

instructions: “Tap and hold to copy”

But the real fix is rebuilding iOS with the plugin.

Acceptance tests

After rebuilding iOS:

Tap “Copy company code” → ✅ success

Paste into Notes → ✅ correct

No “Clipboard not implemented” error

Deliver changes + ensure iOS wrapper sync/rebuild steps are documented in README or a short dev note.