We need to fix the UI for Google Places address autocomplete when adding a client address. In native iOS build, the suggestions dropdown is too wide / mis-positioned / clipped and doesn’t fit neatly within the modal (see screenshot).

This likely happens because the autocomplete dropdown is rendered in a portal to document.body (or absolutely positioned without respect to the modal container), plus iOS safe-area/viewport issues.

Goal

Autocomplete dropdown should be aligned to the address input, the same width as the input, and fully visible inside the modal.

It must not overflow the screen or get clipped weirdly.

Works in iOS native build and desktop web.

Step 1 — Identify the autocomplete implementation

Find the address input component used in “Add Client” modal and determine which lib we’re using:

react-google-autocomplete

@react-google-maps/api Places Autocomplete

use-places-autocomplete

custom dropdown from backend results

Search for:

Autocomplete

places

google.maps.places

getPlacePredictions

Once found, follow the steps for the correct approach below.

Step 2 — Implement a dropdown that is owned by the modal, not by body

Preferred fix: render the suggestions list ourselves inside the modal, directly under the input, instead of letting Google render its own dropdown.

If we already have predictions data (like predictions)

Create a <div> under the input:

position: absolute; left: 0; right: 0; top: 100%;

max-height: 240px; overflow-y: auto;

z-index high enough inside modal (e.g. 50 or 100)

border, rounded, shadow, bg-white

Wrap input + dropdown in a relative container so width matches the input.

Clicking a suggestion fills the input and closes the list.

Ensure the list closes on:

blur (with a short delay so click registers)

selecting item

pressing escape

For iOS: add -webkit-overflow-scrolling: touch

If the library forces a body-level dropdown

Some libs inject .pac-container into the body (Google’s native dropdown). In that case:

Step 3 — If .pac-container is used, force it to style correctly (fallback)

Implement a CSS override that:

raises z-index above modals

constrains width

fixes font sizing
But the hard part: positioning/width.

Approach:

On focus of the address input, measure the input rect:

const rect = inputEl.getBoundingClientRect()

Then, locate the Google dropdown container:

document.querySelector('.pac-container')

Apply inline styles to that element:

style.width = rect.width + 'px'

style.left = rect.left + 'px'

style.top = (rect.bottom + 6) + 'px'

style.position = 'fixed' (important in iOS webview/modals)

style.zIndex = '99999'

Also keep it updated on:

window resize

modal scroll (if any)

orientation changes

Add CSS:

.pac-container { z-index: 99999 !important; border-radius: 12px; box-shadow: ...; }
(Use existing design tokens; don’t hardcode weird colors.)

Also ensure we remove cleanup listeners on unmount.

Step 4 — Modal clipping/overflow

If the modal container has overflow: hidden, a dropdown inside it may get clipped. For the “owned dropdown” approach:

Put dropdown inside the same relative wrapper but ensure the modal content area allows it:

either keep modal content overflow: visible (preferred for this component)

or render the dropdown in a portal inside the modal root, not body

If we keep body-level pac-container, clipping won’t matter, but positioning must be fixed.

Acceptance tests

In Add Client modal, tap Address:

✅ dropdown appears directly under input

✅ dropdown width matches input

✅ dropdown fully visible and scrollable

✅ no weird clipping at screen edges

Selecting a suggestion:

✅ fills address

✅ closes dropdown

iOS native build:

✅ still works with keyboard open

Desktop:

✅ still looks normal

Deliverables

Implement preferred “owned dropdown” if feasible with current code

Otherwise implement robust .pac-container measurement + fixed positioning fallback

Keep code clean and avoid global hacks beyond .pac-container targeting