Clock In To sheet height is now good, but it’s positioned too high. I want it to feel like a true bottom sheet: it should sit on the lower half of the screen, anchored to the bottom (like Apple Maps / iOS sheets). Keep the current styling exactly the same.

Goal

Sheet is anchored to bottom

Only occupies lower half (about 50–60% of screen height)

Top of sheet should start around mid-screen (not near the top)

Background remains dimmed

Content inside remains unchanged

Internal scroll stays inside the sheet body if needed

Implementation
1) Ensure the sheet container is bottom-aligned

Find the wrapper that positions the modal/sheet. It’s probably a fixed inset-0 flex ... overlay.

Set overlay alignment:

display: flex

align-items: flex-end (Tailwind: items-end)

justify-content: center (or justify-center / justify-end depending on current structure)

Add pb-[env(safe-area-inset-bottom)] or a small bottom padding so it doesn’t kiss the home indicator

Example:

overlay: fixed inset-0 z-50 flex items-end justify-center bg-black/40

add p-3 pb-[calc(env(safe-area-inset-bottom)+12px)]

2) Set the sheet height to lower-half

Set sheet content:

width: min(640px, 100%) on desktop (keep existing)

max-height: 60dvh (or exactly 55dvh)

min-height: 45dvh

border-radius top corners unchanged

If we want a consistent “half sheet”:

use height: 55dvh (fixed) OR keep auto but cap with max-height
Pick whichever preserves the current look best.

3) Keep internal layout intact

Do not change inner padding, typography, buttons, card styles.
Only adjust:

overlay alignment (bottom)

sheet height constraints (lower-half)

4) Animation (optional but nice)

If there’s a slide-in animation, ensure it slides up from bottom (not from center/top).
Do not introduce heavy libs.

Acceptance tests

Open Clock In To:

✅ sheet appears from bottom

✅ occupies lower half-ish (top edge near middle of screen)

✅ looks exactly like before internally

Scroll:

✅ only body scrolls inside sheet if needed

iOS safe area:

✅ bottom padding keeps it above home indicator

Deliverables

Bottom-aligned overlay (items-end)

Lower-half sheet sizing

No visual regressions inside the sheet