DM composer is now correct (pinned bottom, no scroll needed). Remaining issue: on native iOS build, the DM header is too high and is being blocked by the Dynamic Island / status bar.

We previously fixed Notifications screen safe-area issues; we need to apply the same approach here, but only for the DM thread header (do not globally shift all pages).

Goal

DM thread header (back arrow + avatar + name/role) must always render below the iOS status bar / Dynamic Island.

Must work in Capacitor iOS (native build).

Must not affect desktop web.

Must not re-break other pages.

Implementation plan
1) Create a reusable “safe-area top” utility

We need a CSS class (Tailwind or plain CSS) that applies top padding using iOS safe area:

padding-top: env(safe-area-inset-top);

Also include a small baseline padding (like 8–12px) so it looks right on devices with and without a notch:

padding-top: calc(env(safe-area-inset-top) + 8px);

Add this to a global CSS file (or Tailwind config via arbitrary values).

Example (plain CSS):

.ios-safe-top {
  padding-top: calc(env(safe-area-inset-top) + 8px);
}
2) Apply it to the DM thread header container

In the DM thread page component:

Find the header wrapper (the top row with back button + avatar + name)

Add:

className="ios-safe-top" only when running in iOS native

keep existing header spacing/padding intact (don’t double pad)

We already have a helper in the codebase for detecting iOS + Capacitor (we used this elsewhere). Reuse it:

isNativeIOS() or similar

If none exists, implement a small helper:

checks window.Capacitor?.isNativePlatform() AND Capacitor.getPlatform() === 'ios'

3) DO NOT shift the whole page — shift header only

Do NOT add safe-area padding to the entire DM screen because we already fixed the composer and internal scroll.
Only the header should move down.

4) Confirm status bar overlay behavior

Since the header is being blocked, confirm we still have:

StatusBar.setOverlaysWebView({ overlay: false }) for iOS
But even with that, some pages may still need safe-area padding.
Do not remove or change status bar config right now; just fix DM header layout.

5) Acceptance tests

Open DM thread on iPhone with Dynamic Island:

✅ back button + name fully visible (no overlap)

Scroll messages:

✅ header stays correct

Other screens:

✅ unaffected

6) Deliverables

Add .ios-safe-top class (or Tailwind equivalent)

Apply it to DM thread header wrapper only for native iOS

No extra debug logs or layout regressions